README.md, before:

<picture style="max-width: 100px" alt="Proto://Validate">
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="./docs/ProtoValidate_dark.svg">
  <img src="./docs/ProtoValidate_light.svg">
</picture>

[![Tests](https://github.com/proto-studio/protovalidate/actions/workflows/tests.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/proto-studio/protovalidate/actions/workflows/tests.yml)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](https://github.com/leaanthony/clir/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/golang/gddo?status.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/proto.zip/studio/validate)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/proto-studio/protovalidate/graph/badge.svg?token=K6MR10DKYX)](https://codecov.io/gh/proto-studio/protovalidate)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/proto.zip/studio/validate)](https://goreportcard.com/report/proto.zip/studio/validate)
[![Discord Chat](https://img.shields.io/badge/Discord-chat-blue?logo=Discord&logoColor=white)](https://proto.studio/social/discord)

ProtoValidate is a fluent data validation and normalization library for Go.

Project goals:

1. Human readable easy to understand and write validation rules.
2. Easily extensible / composable to support any data type and rules.
3. Detailed, actionable, and customizable errors.

Features:

- Type checking at compile time.
- Declarative rule syntax.
- Works on deeply nested objects and slices/arrays.
- Supports automatic correction and normalization of data.
- Easy to extend with custom validation rules.
- Easy to support additional data types.
- Structured error responses make it easy to format, display, and correct errors.
- Support for Internationalization (i18n) for error messages.
- Able to convert unstructured data (such as Json) to structured typed data.

Common use cases:

- API input validation.
- Command line flag validation.
- Unit testing.
- File validating.

Supported data types out of the box:
- `string`
- `int` / `int8` / `int16` / `int32` / `int64`
- `uint` / `uint8` / `uint16` / `uint32` / `uint64`
- `float32` / `float64`
- `struct` / `map` / `[]`
- `time.Time`
- Email addresses
- Domains

Easily customize to make support your own date types.

## Versioning

This package follows conventional Go versioning. Any version up to version 1.0.0 is considered "unstable" and the API may change.

We put a lot of thought into the design of this library and don't expect there to be many breaking changes. You are free to use this library in a production setting. However, keep an eye on the release notes as it will be rapidly changing.

## Quick Start

```bash
go get proto.zip/studio/validate
```

Simple usage:

```go
package main

import (
        "fmt"
        "os"

        "proto.zip/studio/validate"
        "proto.zip/studio/validate/pkg/rules"
)

var ruleSet rules.RuleSet[string] = validate.String().
        WithMinLen(3).
        WithMaxLen(7)

// Try changing the string to see different results
func main() {
        str := "a"

        if _, err := ruleSet.Validate(str); err != nil {
                fmt.Println(err)
                os.Exit(1)
        }
}
```

See the [examples](https://github.com/proto-studio/protovalidate/tree/main/examples) folder for more samples.

## License and Trademarks

The names "ProtoStudio" and "ProtoAuth" are trademarks of Curioso Industries LLC dba ProtoStudio. While the software contained in this project is licensed under the MIT License, the trademarks "ProtoStudio" and "ProtoAuth" may not be used in any product,
advertisement, or other promotional materials without explicit permission from the trademark owner. Specifically, the use of these trademarks may not imply or suggest that a product made with this library is endorsed by, related to, or supported by "ProtoStudio" or "ProtoAuth" or their respective trademark owners.


## Sponsors

- [ProtoStudio](https://proto.studio) - Build app backends fast without writing code.
- [Curioso Industries](https://curiosoindustries.com) - Expert product development and consulting services.

## Support

ProtoValidate is built for mission critical code. We want you to get all the support you need.

For community support join the [ProtoStudio Discord Community](https://proto.studio/social/discord). If you require commercial support please contact our premium support partner [Curioso Industries](https://curiosoindustries.com).

Commit message:

📝 Add best practices to readme + fix image width issue

README.md, after:

<picture alt="Proto://Validate">
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="./docs/ProtoValidate_dark.svg">
  <img src="./docs/ProtoValidate_light.svg" width="800">
</picture>

[![Tests](https://github.com/proto-studio/protovalidate/actions/workflows/tests.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/proto-studio/protovalidate/actions/workflows/tests.yml)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](https://github.com/leaanthony/clir/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/golang/gddo?status.svg)](https://pkg.go.dev/proto.zip/studio/validate)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/proto-studio/protovalidate/graph/badge.svg?token=K6MR10DKYX)](https://codecov.io/gh/proto-studio/protovalidate)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/proto.zip/studio/validate)](https://goreportcard.com/report/proto.zip/studio/validate)
[![Discord Chat](https://img.shields.io/badge/Discord-chat-blue?logo=Discord&logoColor=white)](https://proto.studio/social/discord)

ProtoValidate is a fluent data validation and normalization library for Go.

Project goals:

1. Human readable easy to understand and write validation rules.
2. Easily extensible / composable to support any data type and rules.
3. Detailed, actionable, and customizable errors.

Features:

- Type checking at compile time.
- Declarative rule syntax.
- Works on deeply nested objects and slices/arrays.
- Supports automatic correction and normalization of data.
- Easy to extend with custom validation rules.
- Easy to support additional data types.
- Structured error responses make it easy to format, display, and correct errors.
- Support for Internationalization (i18n) for error messages.
- Able to convert unstructured data (such as Json) to structured typed data.

Common use cases:

- API input validation.
- Command line flag validation.
- Unit testing.
- File validating.

Supported data types out of the box:
- `string`
- `int` / `int8` / `int16` / `int32` / `int64`
- `uint` / `uint8` / `uint16` / `uint32` / `uint64`
- `float32` / `float64`
- `struct` / `map` / `[]`
- `time.Time`
- Email addresses
- Domains

Easily customize to make support your own date types.

## Versioning

This package follows conventional Go versioning. Any version up to version 1.0.0 is considered "unstable" and the API may change.

We put a lot of thought into the design of this library and don't expect there to be many breaking changes. You are free to use this library in a production setting. However, keep an eye on the release notes as it will be rapidly changing.

## Getting Started
### Quick Start

```bash
go get proto.zip/studio/validate
```

Simple usage:

```go
package main

import (
        "fmt"
        "os"

        "proto.zip/studio/validate"
        "proto.zip/studio/validate/pkg/rules"
)

var ruleSet rules.RuleSet[string] = validate.String().
        WithMinLen(3).
        WithMaxLen(7)

// Try changing the string to see different results
func main() {
        str := "a"

        if _, err := ruleSet.Validate(str); err != nil {
                fmt.Println(err)
                os.Exit(1)
        }
}
```

See the [examples](https://github.com/proto-studio/protovalidate/tree/main/examples) folder for more samples.

### Best Practices
Here are some best practices to help you get the most out of ProtoValidate:

- Break custom rules out into their own testable functions.
- If you need the whole object for your rule you can add it to the object `RuleSet` instead of the key.
- Don't redefine your rules sets every use. Rule sets are immutable so you can use/reuse the same instance in multiple threads.
- Impossible rules will often `panic` at runtime. Defining your rule sets at the top level or in module init will let you catch them at launch instead of later.

## License and Trademarks

The names "ProtoStudio" and "ProtoAuth" are trademarks of Curioso Industries LLC dba ProtoStudio. While the software contained in this project is licensed under the MIT License, the trademarks "ProtoStudio" and "ProtoAuth" may not be used in any product,
advertisement, or other promotional materials without explicit permission from the trademark owner. Specifically, the use of these trademarks may not imply or suggest that a product made with this library is endorsed by, related to, or supported by "ProtoStudio" or "ProtoAuth" or their respective trademark owners.


## Sponsors

- [ProtoStudio](https://proto.studio) - Build app backends fast without writing code.
- [Curioso Industries](https://curiosoindustries.com) - Expert product development and consulting services.

## Support

ProtoValidate is built for mission critical code. We want you to get all the support you need.

For community support join the [ProtoStudio Discord Community](https://proto.studio/social/discord). If you require commercial support please contact our premium support partner [Curioso Industries](https://curiosoindustries.com).
